p-536

Direct Memory Access Structure

  Used for high-speed I/o devices able  to transmit information at high speeds.

  device controller transfers blocks of data form buffer storage directly to main memory without CPU intervention

  interrupt generated per block rather than per byte.

Storage structure:

  main memory -cpu can access essentially directly 

  secondary storage -extension of main memory.

  magnetic disks.

Caching - copying information int faster storage.
main memory could be view as a cache for secondary storage

Multiprogramming:
  organizes jobs (code and data) so CPU so the CPU always has something to do.
  one job selected and run via job scheduling
  when it has to wait (say fo I/o) OS switches to other jobs.

Timesharing (multitasking)
  CPU switches jobs so frequently that users can interact with each job while it is running, creating interactive computing. 
  Response time shoud be < 1 second
  if processes don't fit in memory, swapping moven them out to the disk. 

Process Management:
  a process is a program in execution. It is a unit of work within the sysotem. 
  Program is a passive entity, process is an active entity. 
  Process needs resourcesto accomplish its task: CPU, memory, I/O, files, initialization data

I/O subsytem:
  memory management of I/O, and provide a common abstraction for I/O
  provide a general device-driver interface

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Operating System Services
  program execution, be able to load a program into memory, run the program, and end executon normally or abnormally.
  Provide I/O
  Communication between processes
  error detection
  resource allocation
  accounting (keep track of which users use how much and what kindso of computer resources)
  protection and security.

Key idea in operating systems: separation of policy and mechanism.

*important*
The way an operating system gets control is from:
  a. a hardware interrupt.
  b. a software interrupt generated from an application
  c. a interrupt generated by an external I/O device


